This is Jocco podcast number 44 with echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Good evening, echo.
And the last podcast, number 43, when a little bit long.
Sure, we did not get to the Q&A.
And that's one of the nice things about having a podcast, having a form that we actually own.
And can do whatever we want with.
If it goes long, that's cool.
I'm going to just let it go along.
We can go down that road.
Now, some people might say, oh, you went too far down that road.
Okay, that's fine.
Press stop.
Go proceed.
Somewhere else.
Some people say, I wish you would have gone further down that road.
So we're just kind of going off of instinct here.
What to me?
Like, okay, think we went far enough now in that road.
We're good there.
But we did not get to Q&A.
And so that's working to do today.
Do some Q&A.
Questions from the interwebs.
This is always good.
A lot of people, tons of questions, definitely appreciate all the questions that are coming
through.
And I apologize.
I can't get to all of them.
I will say this.
I've talked to some troopers out in the field.
And they're like, we know what you're going to say.
Like, when a question comes, which is awesome.
That means I'm working myself out of a job.
If you're out there and you already know what the answer to the question is, that's
awesome.
That means cool.
You figured out, you know what you need to go, educate someone else.
Go help someone else, go.
So it's cool that people are starting to understand, I think, the holistic mindset that's
going on here.
And that's very positive to me.
Now that being said, there's always questions that come through.
Sometimes even I'm going, okay, let me think about that one.
And some of them are really obvious.
I got on Twitter the other day.
So let me ask somebody said, hey, what have you learned about people or about humans?
Since you, you know, kind of entered the world of social media on a large scale.
And I wrote back that I've figured out that humans don't Google things before they ask you
the question on Twitter.
Because sometimes people just ask me, you know, just a question that you could Google faster,
that asked me about a, you know, just some quote, not one of my quotes, but a Shakespeare
quote or a book or a military unit, you know, man, Google that don't ask me.
If you want to ask me a specific question that I might know, that's cool.
That's awesome.
I'm more than happy to answer it.
Also, I get asked 12 times a day, what time do you go to sleep at night?
So I just write 11.
And people aren't laughing about that.
Anyways, but would you get some awesome questions from the inner web as well?
And the other thing that's cool about answering questions from the interwebs is it does make
me think about that specific situation that someone's in?
And A have I experienced it before, which maybe I have, maybe I haven't.
I've at least probably seen it before or some version of it.
But then once you answer a question about it, it quantifies in your brain.
It solidifies in your brain.
And now when I get asked that question again, I'm like boom, I can answer it more.
I can answer with a little more authority because I've seen it before.
That makes it better.
So basically what I'm saying is when I get forced to answer questions, I am learning.
Just like when I'm reading a book, I'm learning.
When I'm answering a question, I'm learning.
Yeah, just like when you teach it move.
When you teach a moving to Jitsu, you get better at that move.
No doubt about it.
And that's why it is beneficial for me.
And I appreciate all these questions that everybody asked me because they make me smarter.
So, all right, rock and roll.
All right, question number one.
This one was pretty you and Sam Harris.
That's right.
Sam Harris is sitting here by the way, but the question is, I would like to start
BJJ training, but worry about injury.
What are your thoughts?
Now, I actually, we had these questions prepared for to answer on the tail end of 43.
And I will say this, people want to know what's in my mind set about things.
You know, what am I thinking?
Here's one thing.
You might notice this pattern.
If you pay attention close to attention, the podcast, you might notice there's a pattern
that usually after these crazy dark books, I usually roll that first question in the question
and answer period is about Jitsu.
Like let's just relax a little bit.
Somebody posted somebody, BJJK, man, came and rolled with me.
And someone was telling me, someone that I know was telling me, like, yeah, my friend saw
the picture, the video of you rolling.
And it was like, he looks like the happiest I've ever seen him.
And I was like, yeah, I was on the map.
So that's the general idea between, let's just go from the intensity, generally, of a combat
situation from a book into our, now we can take a wrap off and we can talk about Jitsu.
You know, I like that.
Yeah, make sense.
So BJJ training and your word about interest, that makes sense.
Actually, I got some, I've got to ask this question a few times.
People that rely on their hands to work.
One guy's a professional, actually, two guys were professional guitarists.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And they're sketched out about Dung Jitsu.
Anybody that has a job that relies on the lot of physicality, you are at risk, because
you're, you know, you're doing a sport.
No, injuries absolutely happen in Jitsu.
It is a contact sport and you can get injured while you're doing it.
You can get injured in any sport that you do.
Yeah.
Any sport that you do.
The worst, my, I hurt my knee.
I had 80% tearing my MCL.
Did it surfing.
Yeah.
You know, Ben Heal hooked by Dean Lister of thousands, 1000s and thousands of times, never had
a knee injury.
I'm out surfing and hurt my knee.
So you can get hurt doing anything.
But so you have to be careful, right?
And I think one of the best of one of the most critical ways to be careful in Jitsu is
by make sure that you're picking the right training partners.
Because there's some knucklehead training partners at every gym and you're, they're a 20,
22 year old male who has a lot of testosterone and has a very sensitive ego.
So he's looking just to crush everyone.
So you got to watch out for that guy.
And actually, I shouldn't actually paint that so broad brush because there's plenty of
people that are older people with a big ego and younger people.
There's people that are just basically, you got to watch out for these knuckleheads that
are going to go crazy.
Yeah.
Some people don't know better too.
You know, they're just, they just happen to be being in strong and they're not being
knuckles.
Sure.
They're just like, they're getting, you know, they're telling me to grab the arm and pull.
I'm trying to pass that guard.
I don't know that much technique.
I'm just going to go hard.
Yeah.
No, that's right.
They're, they're not intentionally being aggressive, but Jesus is an aggressive
sport.
And if you happen to be 260 pounds, that can be problematic.
So you want to, and I know it sounds weird, because we're going to have to rule some
purple belt that's just going to run through me and actually you do.
Yeah.
The chance of you getting hurt by a purple belt are infinitely less than you getting hurt
by a white belt.
Absolutely true.
Higher you go up the more accurate that is, unless of course you're a, you're a, you're
a problem.
Right.
Or you're a bully.
And there needs to be a regular, a situation to happen in which case a black belt is not
going to, you know, he won't, he won't interview you, though.
That's the thing.
Sure.
I think when you enter fighting sports, punishment isn't being beat up.
You get beat up.
That's part of the game.
Sure.
It's more, it's more of like an embarrassment thing or like, just like,
always get, yeah, like they're going to wear you out, you know, or make you look like
you soccer.
I don't, it's, it's more of like a lesson thing in that way.
Yeah.
It's not like getting beat up.
I agree with you now.
Another piece of this.
And I, this is just a reality.
Okay.
Doing stand up.
You have a higher chance of getting hurt.
Like doing take downs, going hard take downs, either due to a tight style take downs
or resting style take downs, you have a higher chance of getting a knee injury or an
ankle injury.
There's no doubt about it.
So be careful.
Just think about what you're doing there with, with stand up.
You know, if you're a person that's, you know, you got to get a basic take downs
absolutely.
But do you need to step in there night after night and get your full on wrestling
practice together?
And as, if you're a 43 year old person that, you know, you're a 43 year old cop that's
working to beat, you, you know, you need to know take downs.
Don't get me wrong.
You need to train him.
You need to study.
You need to make sure you're not doing.
Do you need to out wrestle somebody in a wrestling situation?
Probably not, you know, you're, you're not going to need to do that.
So just use caution with take downs.
Make sure you know how to do them.
But as you get to where you want to not get injured is your point of your primary
training.
Then just be careful to stand up.
Obviously do a good warm up.
And this is something I'm just the worst perpetrator of not warming up well.
I like to warm up by rolling.
So it actually now I do usually do one round where I'm just kind of chilling and just kind
of rolling flow.
But I used to not even do that.
He's just a clap hands and go.
So don't do that.
Obviously keep your ego in check.
And I'll tell you another thing.
And I was talking about this with Greg Train the other day because Greg Train popped
as a rib.
Yeah.
And he was just saying to me, he's rib is recovered now.
But he was saying to me, you know, he's like, I think you don't get injured because
you work out all the time.
And I'm like, I agree with you 100%.
So I believe that you should work out on a regular basis.
And I said, somebody just asked me, do you train and lift on the same days?
That has, yeah, absolutely.
I train and lift every day.
So get your workout program going on.
You know, make sure you maintain that.
Some people when they start doing GJ2, they're going so crazy that they use all this muscle.
And so they go, I'm not going to work out because I'm just getting a workout.
No, wrong answer.
Keep working out.
And matter of fact, you should.
And I always encourage working out lifting, doing your metcon, doing whatever before
you do GJ2.
That's what I do.
I want to be tired when I show up to GJ2 and fight in a worse scenario, you know, make
it harder for myself.
I don't want to show up and be all fresh.
And like, that's going to happen every day.
No, I like to be tired.
Worn out, stressed system and then show up and still get after it on the mats.
Yeah, that part's pretty advanced though to do it like that.
Got to say, I mean, being new is the question, I've done that the whole time.
Yeah.
And I've done that two before and good.
Do you work out after?
You lift weights after you train GJ2?
I've done both.
Okay.
What do you do normally?
I do one and like, I don't do two days normally.
Oh, so when you roll into the mat, you're like, oh, fresh.
In a matter of speaking, yeah, fresher than I would be if I did a workout before.
Yes.
Put it that way.
That's cool.
No, that's right.
No, that is how it is.
Yes, for sure.
But before and even when I was training for competition and stuff, oh, yeah.
And even, yeah, like maybe like two years, three years ago, maybe?
Yeah, I do the workout first.
And then go roll up like in the evening.
I think that's the plan.
As much as you can work on your flexibility.
And this is something that I again, this is a big failure in my book.
I'm not flexible as I should be.
And if you are more flexible, your injury levels are going to go down.
So stretch and it's really easy stuff that everyone says to do when you're sitting there
on the mat, even when you're sitting in the mat and the teacher's teaching, you know,
trying to go to a lotus position, trying to do stretcher while you're sitting around,
just stretch while you're sitting around, while you're working on your computer sitting
away that you're getting some kind of stretch.
So stretch and be flexible as much as you can.
Now another thing I kind of talked about guitarists and anybody, you know, a surgeon,
anybody that's working with their hands and wants to protect their fingers.
I would recommend maybe emphasizing more nogy where you're not grabbing on to that
ghee all the time.
Yeah.
And fingers get caught up in there and it twists or something to it.
It's an Yankel.
Yeah.
Every time, pretty much.
It's fairly common.
I actually, my worst finger injury was actually no ghee.
So that's, and I only did a couple months ago, which is just, and it was just a bizarre,
you know, it was a bizarre incident.
I was one of those things.
That's why it's really hard for me to just straight up and curve somebody that needs
their fingers.
Yeah.
No, no, don't worry.
You're not going to get no, no, you can't get it.
Now, I've had one finger injury, you know, significant finger injury in 20 plus years.
So you can get a finger injury cut in the carrots on the, you know, in the kitchen.
So, you know, you got to be careful, but there's no guarantee that you're not going
to hurt.
And I'll tell you, and the other thing is, I'll say this.
You got some chance of getting injured, right?
But there's also some massive, physical and mental benefits that will likely outweigh
the injuries, the perceived injuries or the possible injuries that you might get.
So you're just going to be healthier.
Your fingers are going to be stronger.
I mean, yeah, you might get some injured fingers.
But you are also going to have fingers that are stronger.
Your grip is going to be stronger.
So that's beneficial.
Your mind is going to be stronger.
Your cardiovascular system is going to be stronger.
So there's a lot of benefits to jujitsu that outweigh in my mind the possibility of having
an injury.
Yeah.
I mean, a possibility of having a catastrophic injury is pretty small, especially if you train
smart.
It really is.
Okay.
Absolutely, you're.
Yes.
Even of the people that you know over 20, that's a lot of people that you know,
who's had any kind of major injury?
Well, if you count, it turns to jujitsu major injury.
But, you know, if you bought your knee, that means you're going to be down.
You're going to be six months of surgery or whatever.
Surgery and six months of rehab and then another three months before you can train.
That's, you know, that's a year.
Yeah.
And that could be some people considered that catastrophic injury.
I know I would be devastated.
But at the same time, you know, I got next surgery.
I was out for a bit.
Don't even remember it now.
Flash in the pan who cares.
Whatever.
Deal with it.
I played Margitar during that time.
You know what I mean?
Good times.
Yeah.
And in reference to this question, man, this is anything you do.
Guys on the basketball court all the time.
Oh, I'll go up for this recreational basketball.
Pick up game weekend, whatever.
Blot any ankle, whatever.
You know, I had, I mean, I've been in the game what 12 years.
I had won because I was getting nuts in a tournament, bicep, tear, major injury.
You know, out for, you know, year or whatever.
But other than that, never been injured because of the submission.
Not a training, too.
Yeah.
And full speed training, competition, like everything.
It's for a submission holds go.
Never been injured in a submission.
You know how like I don't have to tell you.
Yeah, after time or another.
You should definitely, if you're a smart, you just declare you'll never get injured
from somebody trying a submission on you because you tap.
Yeah.
You tap and look, it's not going to not hurt.
You know, if you tap too late, usually it's just you get hurt.
Maybe your shoulders kind of whatever for a week or you can still train.
It's not an injury.
Put it that way.
Yeah.
And even if, yeah, even if you're, your big smile, I think that's pretty common.
It's really rare that I see, oh, I might ACL is out because of a heel hook.
Maybe in competition because you're trying to win.
You weren't trying to tap.
There's a few, okay.
But yeah, generally speaking, it's surprising almost that it's that safe.
It is.
That's what you can see when you consider what the objective of the sport is to break
and destroy people's limbs.
The fact that it rarely happens, it just rarely happens.
So yes, be careful.
There's no guarantees, but train.
Back to the training partners part, you know, when you, the first, where you're saying,
be careful with you, train with and stuff like that.
So sometimes, especially like, let's say, if you're older or even if you're a girl
and you go in and you're the only girl and some people, like, let's say the guy doesn't
know any better.
He's going hard.
You can tell when he starts to go hard, sometimes it can be awkward to say, hey,
respectfully, I'm not going to roll with you because it's asking someone to dance and
I'm saying no.
It's like rejection, so it's awkward.
So sometimes people will just tough it out and be like, oh, just try to endure.
I think if you can, if you can go through that and really look out for yourself, where
you know, the guy's going nuts, it's obviously, usually he's not trying to go nuts in
her.
That's pretty rare.
But they don't know any better.
They're a white belt or whatever.
And they're just bigger and stronger, whatever.
And they're going nuts.
You've got to find a good, tactful way to be like, hey, I respect you.
But I'm concerned about just my injuries.
Yeah, just, you know, what, hey, sorry, I only roll with people under 130 because I have
a, you know, injured rib.
Yeah, and there you go.
Just, just, is that a white lie?
Maybe it is.
But I don't think it's a malicious, why don't you just say, why don't you just say, when
you break?
Sam Harris, I apologize for telling people, you tell a little white lie to save themselves
massive injuries, catastrophic injuries.
Yeah.
But again, it's like telling someone, no one they asked you to dance.
You can tell white lies.
The fact is, you know, meant for my own reasons, I don't want to dance.
Yeah.
Yeah, but it might be okay to say, oh, sorry.
I'm here with Billy over there, and so I can't dance with you.
And that's actually going to make you feel better than just say, hey, you know what?
Actually, I don't like you.
Yeah, yeah.
You kind of discussed me.
Yeah.
So I'm not dancing with you walk away.
Right.
Yeah, exactly.
Is it necessary to do that?
Probably not.
Maybe the little white lie is okay.
Yeah.
Again, Sam Harris, apologize.
We're encouraging line.
Yeah.
It's like, like, I'm not going to say, your spas, your liability.
You might hurt me because of what you don't know how to do.
I'm not going to roll with you.
That's different.
You mean, you can be offended, guys.
Yeah.
Most likely.
So actually, we're actually talking about that while you are on the Jiu-Jitsu mats,
doing physical Jiu-Jitsu.
Sometimes you got a throw in a little mental Jiu-Jitsu in a situation in just manipulate
a little bit the mentality of your training partners.
Yep.
And that is in the spirit of safety indeed.
Because I don't think Jiu-Jitsu would ever say that to anybody.
You can be like, oh, you're a spas boring at all.
If I'm not mistaken.
You've got to deal with them, people.
No.
Next question.
When dealing with new groups of folks.
Hey, Bob, before you go there, by the way, sometimes you should train with someone that's
really the spas and harder and bigger than you.
You should do that sometimes.
Now you should use caution when you do it.
Maybe you can get that.
I would rather if my son, if I'm going to have
a train with someone that's big and strong, I'm having a train with you.
I'm having a train with Dean.
Yeah.
Because I know that you guys will give them enough strength to, you know, but you're not
going to hurt him because he's only 140 pounds.
But I don't want to give them pressure here.
Like, sometimes you've got to roll with that.
Sometimes you've got to roll with somebody that's big strong and doesn't know what they're
doing.
Just so you're, now you and I know what to do there.
But if you're a blue belt or a blue belt and a big wrestler show in UA, 165 pounds
and a wrestler shows up that way is 240 and it's his third day.
And you're a young guy, you know, it's a good idea to roll with that person.
Because they're going to do things you aren't expecting.
They're really strong.
We try and really hard and you want to be, you want to be, you want to train for yourself
for the unexpected.
So basically, don't just, I'm not saying, we, when I say, you know, watch your training
partners, I'm not saying for a normal person that's training, crawling to a safety bubble
while you're on the mats.
No, especially people that are, you know, young and fit, you should be training with
every person you can.
Every different body style, try them out, big wrestlers, small people, lengthy people,
training with them all.
Because that gets you used to all those different body styles that improves your game.
Yeah.
I'm saying if you are very concerned about injuries, because you have a job that requires
you to, you know, use your hands or walk or whatever, then you go, okay, you know what,
I need to take the long, the long vision here, the long fight, the long war, and really
be selective on my training partners.
Absolutely correct.
Yes, just like, I mean, just like, I have a question is, I want to start, you get to,
and I'm worried about it.
So exactly, that guy, you should be using this.
Yeah, exactly.
But just like how you say, when you get to about Blue Belt, you got to start introducing
more challenges in different ways and absolutely correct, man, because if you don't, if
you don't, and you can, let's say you're not used to, let's say you used to the same training
partners all the time, and you train with, you know, Blue Belt for a belt.
There is specific and very effective, you get to move for other due to moves, right?
So it's like, don't turn your back.
All these rules that are pretty fundamental that rarely should be broken, and we all know
them.
So you roll with a guy who's it's third day is athletic wrestler.
He doesn't know those rules, but now so he puts you outside of the whole format of
you, and if you don't know it, it's like dang, it's almost him.
I do, you're not really working that good.
So if you're not used to it, but if you are used to it, you be like, okay, and that's
such a good technique to use with people, right?
When you're dealing with people, people like people's personalities, people have a personality
that they, that's how they deal with things, and they get people they funnel people into
their world.
So if you have to break that, just step outside their world, like don't get drawn into
people's worlds, right?
Don't get drawn into people's strengths.
I mean, we talked about this all the time, but don't get drawn into their strengths.
Don't get drawn into their way of fighting, because it's not, you're not going to be able
to win that battle, because you do it all day long, right?
So just come out from a different angle, usually disarm new somehow, instead of being
confrontation, oh, wait, this is just normal stuff, but instead of being confrontation
with somebody, take a little flank and maybe massage your ego, but that's the exact same
thing.
If people have a way of doing things and you can get outside their pattern, you have a better
chance of getting a victory.
Yeah, that's crazy on that work.
All right.
So dealing with new groups of folks, when do you do decentralized command right away or
gradually as in slowly give them trust or slowly take it away as needed?
Again, this is a good solid question.
This is something that people ask on a fairly regular basis, and it's a pretty straightforward
answer.
Okay, you can't obviously just write away, just give people full autonomy, because you have
to build it up somewhat incrementally, give them the opportunity to be on their own now,
and what you're really building, what you're really building with decentralized command
is your building trust.
And that's what you're trying to do.
And as I've said before, the best way to build trust is to give trust.
But before you give trust, you've got to set expectations, you've got to set standards,
you've got to set guidelines, because this person that you're just, and this is a
new person, they might be a crazy, they might be incompetent, they might have a totally
different vision of what's okay than you might be on ethical.
There's all kinds of things that they might be that you can't allow for.
So what you have to do is set those standards, set those guidelines, and put those guard
rails in place so that you make sure that this person is ethical, make sure that they
do are professional, make sure that they do have the same standards, make sure that they
understand the expectations you set for them.
And that's when you can start to hand out more slack and more ownership, because we don't
know micromanage.
When I start to talk about parameters, I'm not talking about telling people exactly how
to do it.
But let's say you and I start to work together, and you are my subordinate.
If we fast forward two years from now, I'd be like, hey, echo, this is what we're trying
to get done, make it happen.
I'll check back with me when it's done.
That's how much leeway I'm giving you.
I'm doing care.
But when we first start working together, I mean, hey, echo, here's what we want to get done.
Can you come up with a plan, and then let me know, let me take a look at what you're going
to do.
Boom.
Now I'm still letting you fully own the plan, but I'm going to do a little check.
I'm going to make sure that it's the right gym.
I'm going to make sure it's a good plan.
I'm going to make sure it's a smart plan.
I'm going to make sure handles our resources correctly.
So all the things, I'm just going to, and then the more we work together, the more we build
the trust, the more you understand the expectations, the less guidance I'm going to give
you, the less oversight I'm going to give you, because I'm going to get built up, because
you've built up trust with me, and I've built up trust with you.
So that's important.
I also want you to be able to make your own decisions, because I don't want to be making
decisions all the time.
So even when you, even in the first scenario, when I've been working for a long time,
you know I say, hey, I can go and figure this out, you go you go handle it, you get it done.
When we first start working together, you might come to me and say, hey, Jockel, I hit
this wall, what do you want me to do here?
What do you think I'm going to say?
Figure it out, I'm going to say figure it out.
I'm going to say, hey, man, I don't know what your, what your best guess, or how would you do
it?
Or, you know, if we knew each other a little bit better, I'd say, hey, man, don't come
asking me those questions, go figure that out, okay, how you do it?
Just get around that wall, boom.
And we're done. And now the, the other, one other key part of this is often times if
you take over new team, you may want to, you may want to start off by setting the example,
by running the perfect operation, by going from end to end with some project that you set
the standard on how you want things to be.
So every looks and goes, okay, that's how, okay, I see how he did that.
Whoa, he wants that done. He, oh, he holds the line on that.
So that way, everybody knows what the standard is.
So there's, and I would always, you know, I mean, I would always, when I start off,
when I take over a普通, take over squad, like, okay, we're doing this operation cool.
Here's how I would run it.
Very distinctly, very clearly be the guy.
Mm-hm.
And then as time goes on and trust develops, I'm going to become less and less the guy
and more and more the, the decentralized leader that's stepping back and letting the front line
true, that's what I'm going to try and make happen.
Um, as always, when you do start with a new group, it's really easy.
Be humble, listen, take advice, ask questions, ask questions, ask good questions about things
that you have, there's something you don't understand.
I asked a question, no big deal.
Make the slow incremental changes, like hack where talks about, you know,
you're going to feel my soldiers, it's good to change two things a day.
Not going to change the whole world overnight.
Can't do it.
So he's going to change two things a day.
That being said, he also did some major, remember, if you remember this hack worth, he
gets in there and the guys have radios and they got good guitars and they got all this stuff
and he goes, yeah, put all that stuff in the middle of the compound.
It's out of here tomorrow.
Right?
That was a major change.
So he went and kind of shook him up a little bit, but then he goes, okay, now I got to go
the long war, I'm going to change two little things a day.
And that's what he did.
So sometimes it's a combination of those two.
Sometimes you've got to give send a little shock of value, like hey, new sheriff and
town, that's what you just saying, the shielding, so new commanding officer would come over.
If you would do a lot of times they do something to assert their presence.
Okay, I'm here now.
No more parking in the back lot.
You know what I mean?
Or, hey, new seal.
I just took over no more wearing this uniform to this place.
Okay, so I haven't got okay, new sheriff and town.
Let's let him get this out of his system.
Oh, this look, do they typically react in that way where they're like, that's why
see what you're doing there?
Pretty much cool.
Pretty much in the sealed teams.
It would be like, okay, yeah, and hey, new sheriff and town, he just came up with a new
rule for us to fall.
So we know he's here.
Cool.
Right.
He's not like some resentment or not.
Maybe the guys that are less mature.
Maybe guys that weren't quite in the game.
Right.
What do you do in this for?
Yeah.
Maybe a hey, bro, don't worry about it.
It's new sheriff down.
He's got it.
He's letting us know where he's here.
Yeah.
He's got it.
We got it.
So we're all good.
Yeah, yeah.
But occasionally, he occasionally gets somebody that comes in.
You notice the things that I just said were fairly irrelevant.
Like hey, don't wear this uniform to there or hey, don't park in this part.
Whatever, those are fairly inconsequential things and those things are okay, actually.
But occasionally, you'd see somebody come in and try and execute some kind of a fundamental
change and that's where you go away the second bat.
You've been here for a day and a half and you want to execute a fundamental change on
what we're doing here.
There's a we have a problem with that.
We as the troops have a problem with that because you don't know how do you know.
We've been doing this for I was at sealed team one for.
Eight years, you know, you're going to show up.
I've been here for five years.
You're going to tell me how it's better to do this.
And that might not be the right attitude for a young guy like myself to have.
But that's the attitude that you're going to generate if you come in and try and make
fundamental changes without assessing.
So show some tactical patience when you come in and say, okay, let me check this out.
Again, just to refer back to the hack, the hack worth story, hack worth was going to
take over a batagon that was all jacked up.
They were called the hopeless, right, and he wanted to turn them into the hardcore.
So he, his shocking thing that he did was meant to shock.
And it was also meant to square them away and was also the right thing to do.
And they also had a bad reputation.
If he went in and took over a really good battalion, he wouldn't go in there with the same
shock and all type treatment because they don't need it.
So you got to, you got to think about what you're doing.
But I mean, most cases unless you're taking over some kind of a problem situation, there
you might have to use a little shock.
If you're taking over normal situation, no, the boss got promoted, you're going to go
in his parole.
Hey, no problem.
Come in there, be humble, listen.
Then as you see fit, make some small incremental changes.
Yeah, like the shocking off thing will probably work against you in a normal situation.
Oh, yeah, it'll definitely work against you.
It'll definitely work against you.
Now you, now, because now you're, now think about it.
Now you're imposing a plan on people.
Yeah, people don't like to have plans imposed upon them.
They don't like it.
Even the big, controlled military, where everyone's in our chain of command?
No, no one in the military likes to have big new ideas imposed upon them without
fought and without assessment and without explanation and without telling people why.
No, you don't do that.
Yeah.
And that what you want and what you want to do is by doing all those things, by building
that trust, by setting the standards, by setting the guidelines, by putting the guard
around someplace, by listening, by respecting, by being humble, what you will do is you
will lead people to lead themselves.
And that's what you want.
Yeah, explaining why I feel like that's maybe an underappreciated thing.
I'll tell you what, it's not underappreciated in my book.
That's the absolute, that is the critical piece.
Oh, yeah, even.
Explain to people why they don't want to know.
You could go in and, I mean, really, when you think about you could go in and change some
fundamental thing, if you explain why and then there was like, oh, yeah, that makes sense.
But just like, are you saying, if you roll in and you're just, you make a fundamental change.
Everyone's like, bro, we were doing it that way for a reason.
And you just came in, changing, but you explained why and then I'm saying it makes more
sense.
And you get feedback because maybe what you said is a wrong decision.
Yeah.
You might be saying something that's like, you know what, you didn't think that through,
really, all that well.
Yeah.
You needed to discuss this with the, with the troops and figure out what their assessment
of, of your call is.
Yeah.
Again, one of those things where when we talk about like, this is like, yeah, yeah, that makes
perfect.
But it's, I don't know.
It's easy.
You know what's funny is on the podcast.
Just as an example, we talked fairly shortly about going to the podcast once
every two weeks, right?
I didn't really give a good explanation of why.
And you know what feedback I got.
It was like, hey, you got to be kidding me.
Well, no, this thing comes out on Wednesday.
Yeah.
Jocco.
I don't know what your problem is.
The podcast comes out on Wednesday.
And I got that feedback from numerous people, not only on social media, but also in, face
to face, you know, people that texted me and called me and said, bro, you can't go
to once a week.
And there were people that say, hey, first of all, if you're going to do that, you
need to set some kind of warning, you need to let people know we need some time.
So it was funny.
But the essential thing that I did not do is say, hey, guys, here's what's going on.
Here's why I would want to do this in a different way.
And I didn't really explain that.
You know, we just kind of, because it wasn't an actual decision that was getting made.
It was a consideration.
The consideration has been revoked by the way.
We're holding the line.
And when we do have to do that, which may or may not happen.
And I will explain why in great detail, so everyone understands where I'm coming from.
Because I don't want to leave anybody hanging.
Yeah, I think it can be like, hey, Jocke, I feel like you don't really understand what's
going on here on the front lines.
Yeah, you know, you know, we're the front lines.
We wait for that podcast.
We'll, awesome.
Next question.
Jocke, what are some workouts to progress in becoming more relaxed in the water?
I need to lower my heart rate.
Okay.
Again, this is a good question.
It's actually a little bit of a universal question.
That's what I like to take questions at apply, universally, to multiple things, becoming
comfortable in the water is very important.
Water makes you better.
Water makes you a better person.
And I'll tell you, I've said this before.
In the sealed teams, one of the things that makes us goodness the sealed things.
We have to deal with water and water as a pain in the acid.
The movements, things, it floods things.
It stops.
It stops guns from working.
It stops radios from working.
It stops humans from working.
You drown in it.
It's water is very tough to deal with.
It's a very harsh environment.
Especially the ocean water.
I used to say that every time you go in the water, it's a real world.
Because you can get killed.
You can get killed in the ocean.
You can get killed in the ocean today.
If you make the wrong moves.
So you definitely need to be comfortable in the water.
Now first things first, water will kill you.
Water will kill you.
You will die.
If you make mistakes in the water, you will die.
So whoever is wrote this question and whoever is going to heed my advice here, note and
be advised that water will kill you.
So when you swim, you've got to have a lifeguard and there's a couple examples of
guys in my that went through seal training with who was a stud, a complete stud.
He was the honor man of my bud's class and a great guy.
I mean, not just, I mean, it's cool to be honor man.
It means you're a good athlete.
But this guy was also beyond that.
It was just a great guy extremely motivated.
His name is Keith Camura.
And he was practicing breath holds.
As he was in use, after we went through seal training and he get gone to a seal team
and served and had come back to be a seal instructor.
And he was practicing breath holds during a, during an evolution for the students.
And while all that was going on, you know, they're doing stuff for the students and he's
down their practicing breath holds.
On his own kind, he was in the group, but on his own, if that makes sense.
So there's a big evolution going on and while this big evolution going on, he's kind of doing
his own thing.
Right.
And he died.
He was doing breath holds.
He stayed down there, he had a shallow water black out and he died and was awful.
I mean, what an incredible, incredible guy.
We also had some seals in 2015 that were in Virginia Beach, young studs, getting after
training super hard.
And they both died in a pool in Virginia Beach.
And again, you know, these are frog men.
These guys are pushing themselves.
And, you know, trying to make themselves better.
And they pushed that envelope and that's what seals do and they pushed it and they went
over the line.
And unfortunately, they were training together at the same time.
So you got to be safe.
You got, don't train alone.
And don't train with someone that's doing the same thing as you at the same.
You can't endure the same thing together.
You know, it's a real, it's a real simple rule to want up one down.
So if it's your turn to train, I stay out.
And then you do your evolutions and then when you're done, okay, now it's my turn to
train, you stay out and you watch me.
It's one up, one down.
That's the, that has to be the standard.
Again, people don't, don't play around with the water.
You know, I've had shallow water blackouts and you, they just come and that's it.
You're unconscious.
And, and if you, if someone's not there to drag you out, you're going to drown.
You're going to die.
That's it.
And then again, it's sort of, you can tell that they're coming a little bit and you get
used to them, but it's sort of like it and choked out in jujitsu.
Yeah, you know, you've been choked out before.
All right.
Yeah, so you think you're going to make it.
Yeah.
And then you don't, and you can push it, too.
That's the thing.
Especially when you're training, like when I'm trying to get stronger at like
chokes and you want to be, if you have some fight in you, you know, you want to be
able to, to fight, you know, so you push it a lot of times.
Especially when you have experience, you push it a little bit and then sometimes, because
you just gotta go, you can feel the back out coming.
But once you go right past that point, you can't tap anymore.
You go out.
You did to safe because usually the guy can feel you go out and they let you go, but
probably in the water, it's like it, you know what the event horizon is in a black hole.
Yeah, that little, there's a line.
Yeah, if you go over that line, you're done.
And that's exactly what happens with your consciousness.
You, you, you, you, you, you can see that line.
You're watching it like, oh, I'm going to get you.
Okay, I'm going to make it.
And then also it's gone.
Yeah.
And you're over the line.
You're in the black hole.
And that's it.
So be very, very careful when you're doing this.
Always have a swim buddy.
Swim with a lifeguard, all that stuff.
Now the question back to the question, beyond the safety portion is how do you get more
comfortable in the water?
You spend time in the water.
Swim surf spear fishing snorkeling, scuba diving, survival floating, breath, hold,
shredding water.
Just, that's how you get comfortable in the waters by being in the water.
Give yourself little challenges.
Swim with swim with teacher, it's in your hand.
Swim with your clothes on, swim, DJ, you're not just all the other things.
Those things to get to be in the water and do things and swim.
And that's how you get more comfortable in the water.
And you'll rapidly increase your ability to be in the water and handle yourself in the
water and you'll be much more calm in the water.
And the reason I said this is a universal question is because it's the same thing with
just about everything else that you're going to do.
It's the same thing with swimming.
It's the same thing with doing, you want to get a pull-ups, do more pull-ups.
You want to get better at public speaking, get up and start doing public speaking.
Everything was shooting, like when people first start shooting and they're all intimidated
by firearms, it's because they're not used to them.
So spend time shooting, spend time around guns, you'll get used to the muscle flash, you
get used to the concussion of the noise and you will be more comfortable about it.
So that's what you need to do in the water.
You spend more time in the water and you'll get better at it, you'll get more comfortable.
Again, be careful when you're doing it.
You'll water, the water will kill you.
It would've de-jocked me.
Oh, it's a term, as far as I know, it comes from buds from seal training, where when you
put your scuba gear on, they call it joc-ing up.
So joc-up in your gear and then it, in the seal teams, it becomes, it's a term that
means any type of getting your clothes on.
You're getting your gear on, getting your clothes on, getting dressed.
Put your jocs, drop on.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know if that's where it comes from.
I think you can.
You can, but they used to play, you don't even remember that little kids game hangman?
Yeah.
Were you feeling the letters?
Well, whenever the class would make a mistake, they would put, they'd have joc-up
written on the board and they'd put one letter in and then when you spelled out all of
joc-up, then they would make you do joc-up drills, which are not fun.
But it's just putting on stuff.
You're a gear, yes, but the joc-up drills involve ridiculously stupid and hard calisthenic
workouts with your entire gear load out.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They would, you know what, bear crawling is?
Yeah.
So you had to bear crawl with 272 tanks on.
You know, we bear crawl to the chow all.
I mean, it's a mile.
I think our instructors got in trouble for making us bear crawl with them.
Yeah, it's inhumane.
Yeah.
They were like, the Geneva Convention called, it's a bro.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah, we had to bear crawl.
In football, we had to.
There was an incident in camp in football at UH one time.
And, where we're supposed to be, you know, sleeping, you know, lights out whenever.
And the guy who remained, no, this is his name is Tupualualu.
This is like when I was young, I was like a freshman.
Tupualu, someone, yeah.
And he, I can say his name now because he admitted it afterwards, but before they were like
it would have to keep his come.
Yeah, yeah, totally classified.
Tupualu, get an after-trip.
Tupualu, what do you do?
Okay, so people were messing about.
We're supposed to be in bed.
What happened?
It's a security comes or whatever and like, we all, everyone hides.
Some say we wasn't me, I wasn't doing it.
And someone threw a sandwich at the security guard.
Hit him.
And it was this big incident.
In and of itself throwing sandwich is a security guard.
That's more funny than anything.
But we're supposed to be in bed.
You know, we're a football team.
You can't do that.
So, it was like, hey, who was this?
If no one admits it, everyone's gonna get punished.
So, of course, everyone gets punished.
We're doing bear calls across the field nonstop.
So it was like I can relate to the bear crawl to the chalho
It wasn't like okay bear crawl to here and then it was like you're going all the way
I don't even know how many times we did it one guy was like
Crot was crying so you pissed up
What ever did it face up crying grown men crying? I don't like that guy none less so yeah bear call that's wrong
Bear crawl snow joke, but I think jocky up is because you wear your jocks start when you get in the game
Like a juxtap joke, you know, maybe one of the old UDG guys that listens to podcast will contact me and let me know where
Jock up came from. Yeah, that's my much
My one is on that's cuz of jock gear in the gearing up. Jock shut up is like the manly, you know
I'm telling not going down this road
But I'm not as I've been I'm already down the road. I can't help that you do that. I can't belong
I'm not gonna agree with you. I think you're wrong. All right. There you go
Yeah, right
Yeah, yeah, there you go
Next question. Yeah, let's go to the next question. I talk about that one anymore. You're using me on it
What's the dichotomy in having an ego when is it good and when does it get to a point where you have to check your ego?
Okay, so
Did dichotomy is pretty clear
Um, ego drives you absolutely it makes you want to win it makes you want to perform well
It makes you proud of your achievements makes you want to be number one
And those are all good things and I fully fully
Have those myself. I mean my ego will keep me up at night trying to win it some ridiculously
Meaningless thing in the world especially when I was younger it was kind of stupid
But the ego can also get you in trouble get you in trouble really really quickly for instance
I mean you can your ego can make you
Sabotage
Your coworker that's all the same team is you so that you can outside of right that's ego
You can vote down a plan a
Better plan because that plan isn't yours. That's your ego
you can
Chase some
Material items some things something that you don't
Really need maybe in some case it might even be something that you don't actually even want and
Hmm and it's just fuel in your ego which is which is a really bizarre thing to see it can make you step on your subordinates, right?
It can make you undercut your peers because that ego flares up it can make you you're gonna make you dig in
Dig in on some stupid ideas that you've had those the kind of things that ego do and all those things are negative
so
That's pretty clear to me
Where ego starts going sideways and and I would say even though like my ego is fuel needed to to want to win
But I'd never was that out of control where I was like screwing and screwing people over because I wanted to win
No, I wouldn't do that that wasn't part of my personality was I'm not that possibly I was never really naturally good at much
So it wasn't like I was gonna wait the only way I could be people and things was better outworking them yeah other than that
I it would be hard for me. Yeah, usually that kind of person who
Like you well the two kinds of people on who who is down to like screw someone over or basically cheat you're cheating is what you're doing it's like
I want to be here. I don't necessarily want to quote unquote win because if you cheat it's not really winning
You know the whole benefit of winning is like overcoming certain things, you know, but when you cheat it's like you're not running and you cheat it you know whatever
So it's less about
It's more about you
Understanding really what winning is and that's what you like the winning, you know
Yes, yes, that's why so like people under my you know cheat and do this stuff. It's like they don't want to win
I was like you get case and point when I remember when when I was going to see all training
There was people there was guys that would like brag about it
They were going through the same seal training class me same buds class me, but they would like brag about it
And like you could hear him talking to let's say some random person. Yeah, we're on the seal training
I wasn't brag about that. I was like I'm a lucky him here and
I realized that a lot of those people quit because they were comfortable
They they just being able to say like seal training
They were already good with it. They were like oh, yeah, I did what I'm supposed to do. Yeah, so
Me, I want to do that. I didn't want to say anything until I made it through yeah, and so
Yeah, so what I'm saying is
Similar to what you're saying they were satisfied
Just by being able to throw that out there that was enough for them
So for someone that's willing to cheat when or they're eat they're willing to step on someone
Man, it doesn't feel good to me. That's never felt good to me
Like if I got a step on someone I don't even want it. I don't want that victory don't want it
So that it's like they want a some people want to look like they won and other people want to really win. Yeah, of course
That's really the difference. Yeah, yeah, yeah, so
Back to ego point when you start feeling like you're doing some of those negative things
That's when you've got to put your ego in check. That's what you've got to support your coworker
Instead of sabotaging that's when you've got to pick the best plan out there instead of picking your own
That's when you say do you know what I'm happy with what I have
In say to chasing
Things that I don't even need you know I'm talking about with people like
If you were there's been something that you wanted even though you actually didn't even really want it
But you just want it just because you because it's pure ego. Here. You go
Yeah, like when you're in the weight well
And growing up like lifting weights. Sometimes you do this where they'd be lifting weights and you can see a lot of times in these like like a 24-hour fitness situation where
You'll be lift
Guys will be lifting weights and then one guy will
He's what they're saying he's lifting kind of a lot
You'll see someone all of a sudden be doing that same exercise like trying to lift more than that he doesn't know him
You're not lifting with him. He wasn't even doing that exercise. So wasn't even his work up
He was like trying to do it, you know, but you weren't even doing that exercise
You weren't doing bench today and now you're doing bench
Yeah, chasing something you don't even want
Don't even need it. Don't need it that day
That's another big one is like when I talk about subordinates instead of cutting down your subordinates
You start lifting them up you start making them shine you start giving them the credit making them shine even brighter than yourself
That's that's
The beautiful thing when you can put your ego in check and you can make that happen
Making your own boss look good having an open mind to new ideas those are the things that's how you put your ego and check those are the things that
Those are the those are the hallmarks of having your ego and check now sometimes people don't know when
They need to put their ego in check and I think there's one really easy indicator to know when you need it just at least
Like doing assessment of your ego and that is when you come into conflict with another person
because because
That huge percentage of conflicts that you have with other people are ego are their ego and
And so when you feel that conflict whether it's about positioning whether it's about an idea whether it's about a plan
Whether it's about a little amount of what's about but if I'm in conflict with you on something
I immediately I'm gonna say okay, what is that?
I'm gonna say you're ego talking or are you is this business or is this ego and
If you do that you will find yourself you know any form of frustration or
Anger that you have just check your ego and there's a good chance that you're gonna be able to take that thing
Get a hold of it and aggressively put it in check. It's hard your ego is a tough bastard
Your ego man that thing wants the spotlight it wants to shine it wants the glory and it's it's driven
You know that's a lot of you high achievers out there
That's what's driving you and it's not a bad thing so when it comes time to harness that bad boy it can be a challenge
But it's very rewarding when you make it happen
It's it's rewarding in a long term gratification
It's not immediate gratification
Generally you know you're given you're given your support. It's all the credit for some for some project that they did
Any and you know that you could actually know that you did the bulk of the work. Would you give it away?
That's not gratifying
Immediately the immediately is like yeah, that's right put the accolades on my head boss
That's immediate gratification that you're looking for no you say hey boss
You know what don't put the accolades on my head look at my team
Let's crown them because they really did a great job. You know, I'm just here to help them
There's no gratification there
But when you get feedback a week later a month later
Six months later people want to come and work for your team now your team gets picked for another project
That's the long-term gratification that you get when you keep your ego in check. Yeah
Keep that ego in check people
You know
These are a took extreme ownership over every detail and mistake on
Of the roofing company I was starting
But instead of inspiring my employees they just got entitled
Because of the because of this the business almost ran into the ground
In addition I got so worn down now my resolve almost collapsed in your estimation what did I do wrong?
So
This is an example. I don't see this all the time, but I do see it sometimes
And what we have here is you know clearly guy
Steps up and says you know what I'm gonna take ownership. I'm gonna take extreme ownership
Which is what I'm always encouraging people to do life and I wrote the book
We call the book extreme ownership because that is the fundamental principle that
We see as the commentary that makes people successful when they're taking ownership instead of blaming other people
So that's what this guy did with the roofing company hand-mintake ownership of all the mistakes
Now the problem there is
With the the concept of extreme ownership it means taking
Ownership of the mistakes taking ownership of the problems
But it doesn't stop there
That is simply where you start because the real true ownership that you need to take is you need to take extreme ownership of the solutions of
Implementing the solutions of creating and implementing the solutions that's what you need to take ownership of so in a situation like this like for instance
Oh, I took ownership everything so my team became entitled
Now now first of all in in that statement in its own right
If I say hey, we failed because my team became entitled what did I just do?
I blame them for becoming entitled why did they become entitled? I allowed them to
What am I gonna do solve that I either have to train to win I'm treating them
Maybe there's a couple cancers in there that have that attitude 90 defy are those people or
Replace them or get them retrained or put some ownership on them so that they realize
Okay, oh, I'm gonna get I'm gonna lose my job if we're gonna fail this mission or the companies go out of business
If I don't do this right so you got a
That's the mistake there what do I so you've identified the problem you take an ownership of it. Hey, we we
Hey, we got to make sure we get our jobs done on time
Okay, boss well you didn't order the gear and time and you didn't do this and now we're behind so it's not our fault
You and by the way, pay me if that's the attitude your employees have you got a problem as a leader
So what is the problem? How do you fix that problem?
Um
The the
Nothing is about ownership is taking ownership of the problem doesn't fix the problem
Right it doesn't fix the problem you still have to come up with the solution
so
That's what it is
When we talk about extreme ownership we're definitely not just talking about owning the problems
But like I said owning the solutions and owning the implementation and actually carry to it's
to it's furthest
Stretch to it's furthest outcome. That's we have to take extreme ownership of and this is the most important part and obviously
I need to make this clear enough because this should be something that everyone fundamentally understands when they talk about extreme ownership
The the most important part for you to own as a leader is the outcome is
the end state if you are not meeting your end state that's what you have to take ownership of that's what you have to make happen
so
That's it
You know when you're when your company's not doing the right thing. Yeah, you got to take ownership of the mistakes that happen
You got you got employees that are acting wrong. Yeah. Hey. It's my fault that they're acting wrong
You got deadlines out your missing guests. My fault that we missed the deadlines now you got to go back and ask yourself the question
How do I make the deadlines? How do I fix those employees?
You got to solve those problems that are out there. Otherwise extreme ownership doesn't do anything for you
And we've talked about this before as well and that is that
It's taking ownership of things is
Not a it's not a a shelter
It does it doesn't provide shelter. Yeah, it doesn't it and some people think it does they go hey, you know what?
Hey, we missed a we missed we failed on our mission. It's my fault
Okay, so you know, let's move on no no no actually no we don't move on you failed in your mission
How you can fix it?
Extreme ownership does not does not give you any mercy whatsoever
That's what's hard about it and by the way the thing that the thing that extreme ownership that makes it hard
Is because the the previous question in a taxorego
Because when you say hey guys, this is my fault. You're not just saying
Hey guys, this is my fault. Let's move on you're saying this is truly my fault
We failed because of me and these are the things we're gonna do fix it and I'm gonna own it until we get it done
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that it kind of makes sense like it is one of those all and nothing things, you know where extreme won't
He can it's just funny how you put it, you know where you're like I did my extreme ownership
There's enough to you guys gonna think you can't really do that and this question is is is a really good question
And I appreciate it because you can see the guy
That asked it he clearly is motivated wants to do well, but he
Again my fault for not explaining this well enough
He thought that just taking ownership would solve the problem no
You have to take ownership and
Solve the problem the I met a fact that the taking ownership part is the initial part that lets the rest of it happen
And then that's why we emphasize it so much because most people they just don't take on it
They're not even close. Yeah, this guy. He's close. He's taking ownership now. He's got to realize okay
I took ownership. I realized that it's my fault and it gained. It's not just him saying
Well, it's my company. So it's my fault and so I hope this works out no don't hope anything
You fix it you make it happen and I again I appreciate this question because I could see in his earnest asking of the question like he's like man
What did I do wrong? What did I do wrong? Here's what you did wrong? You know you you made the first step
Which is the hardest step that's the positive here one of the most positive things about this guy is he's made the hardest step
which is okay. This is my fault
The follow on is what he missed now how do I fix it what do I do to implement it?
You got lax a day is it go entitled employees that is your fault. So how do you fix them?
Because if you're laxed as a goal and entitled around me that means I'm doing something wrong
I mean you don't understand the mission you don't understand why we're doing what we're doing
You don't understand why it's important to meet the deadline on this roof so we can move on to another one
So that we can collect money to pay for our next one
There's all kinds of reasons that you could tell people why these things are important and if you have people that you they know
Exactly why they're doing what they're doing and they still aren't getting in the game
You need to find some more people to come and work for you some different people some people with better
Attitude and bring them on board with the right attitude. Yeah, this some
Even to add to why this is such a good question is
This is exactly what people are scared of with the extreme ownership. It's like dang if I take extreme ownership over everything
They're gonna take advantage or they're gonna you know be entitled or whatever that I think I mean even thinking about it
That's what I'd be afraid of
Yeah, I'm afraid of you know and I will tell you having done this my whole career
When you take ownership of things people don't there there is a small chance
There's a couple knuckleheads like these the idiots at this guy has working for them that are entitled and now I shouldn't say that
Because he may have provided the environment to become like he might have been the easy button and every time they say
Hey boss, I can't fit I get a boss. I can't come and late today. Can you finish up that roof by yourself?
And he's like hey, you know what I'm gonna take ownership of this right he goes okay. I'm gonna take ownership
Don't worry about I got it now. He does that four days in a row. He's worked 16 hours days
He's starting to get broken mentally and physically. You ever done roofing before?
Yeah, that's hard work especially in the summertime when the blaze and son
14 16 hour a day. I had to do I pulled a chimney off my little
Just chimney off my roof one time. I thought I was meal just patched the roof. No, I had to strip like a third of my roof on my house
And then I'm up there. We got rainstorms coming. I'm up there. Okay. I got to roof this whole thing in the next one
That was an 18 hours get some yeah
So roofing is hard work yes, and if
If you don't take that if you don't if you don't get these employees in the right mindset
If they're not part of the team if they're not on board how you can fix that if you and what I was gonna say is if you become the easy
But in all the time then that allows them it fosters the attitude of hey, you know what
This is on jocco. He's the one that he's still got to pay me
Like no actually let me tell you how it really works
You know how I pay you regardless of what you do well
Eventually I don't pay you anything because you don't work here and I don't have a business anymore
So if that's where you're at don't want you here and I will do this myself and I'll all schedule
My jobs appropriately so I can do it all myself if you want to get in the game and be part of this team which you should
Then
This is what I need from you here's the expectations. This is why
Because next year this year we did 14 roofs
Next year I want to do double that and that means I'm gonna get you a crew
That's gonna work for you when you're gonna make bump your pay up a little bit
I'm gonna get you moving along and get you promoted maybe sometime you'll have two or three teams
Working for you. Do you want to do that or do you want to continue being the guy that's hauling shingles all day?
Are you in the game with me or not are you part of this gig?
See so you gotta get in their heads you gotta get them out of that
mindset and into the right mindset so that you can dominate
Yeah, I feel like that extreme ownership kind of provides that too you know where if
Like how you've always said if you're like blaming them overtly blaming them they're like oh
It's gonna not on my team they have that feeling but if they're like if he's taking the response with it
It's like oh, thanks guys kind of on my team. Yeah, do you want to do all that?
Classic you're right classic example if I approach you and I'm like echo
Dude you're just entitled
You're entitled you don't have a good attitude. What attitude do you have now? Yeah?
What attitude do you have now now you're like oh what are you talking about? I'm entitled
We you're I'm entitled yeah, you're damn right of entitled because look at what I've been doing I've been no where as if I if I take a different approach with you and say
Man look I think you got a lot of potential you know
I think you got a lot of know you got a lot of things going on at home
And I know you got that girlfriend and I know you're doing this and that but you know what I think you got some potential here
Let me show you what it's gonna lead you know
I know you don't want to be carrying shingles for extra life and on your knees smack and nails right
But maybe you could be running a crew and this is how I want to grow
Do you kind of want to get in the game with me because I think you might you see what I'm saying that's all the takes you understand me. Yes
Good question. Thanks and good luck with that company
Small business owners getting after it's hard running a small business. It's hard work
You are the buck stops of you whether you like it or not because even if you hey
You know what even if you don't want to take extreme ownership of your small business owner
Eventually you you're gonna get put on it's on you. It is on you so it's it's great
I love I love the small business owners getting after it out there next question
Thoughts on how to deal with toxic slash negative people
Oh those people
Yeah, so first of all it's important to recognize that those people exist
Everywhere and everybody's got to deal with me if you run into one of these people
Don't get all surprised as if they're alone range or out there being negative no
There's negative range. Here's all over the place
So I we got to do you got to know how to deal them and it's
So so when you're doing what someone like that first of all
Confronting them
Of course as you can probably predict is not usually the best option because all you're doing is you're attacking
They're heavily defended position, which is not good
So one of the techniques that I use when dealing with these kind of people is
I
Absorb
I absorb
their
critiques I absorb their toxicity I absorb their
Negativity now obviously this takes a little bit of strength right you can't be taken stuff personally you have to in order to learn how to
Abesorb thing you gotta say if I'm just gonna do in this for the team right but
it looks like
For instance when they say oh this is horrible
I don't say no, it's not horrible. I don't just go right back out of them
I say yeah, you know what we definitely got some room for improvement right? So I kind of just deflection
I kind of just
Sort of it right oh it was sort a bit a little bit because what they want to do is they're lashing out right
They're throwing the negativity they like those explosions they like to see it hit something and blow up
They that's what they're doing that's how they roll
So you're gonna absorb you can catch it pull it in right so when they're like
We can never do this
I don't say we can absolutely do this no because you didn't you're just go you're gonna create the explosion that they're looking for
Instead of saying you don't want
We might not be able to do it. I'm gonna give it a good solid try
I'm gonna try and do it right so we're just deflected a little bit and they're gonna throw you some other negative thing and
You know if they say this is stupid
I don't say no this is the most brilliant thing I've ever seen. I don't do that
No go ahead to head. I'm gonna say you know what
There's definitely some room for improvement the next time around you're right a hundred percent. Oh
Yeah, you just got deflected
and
Those reactions they disarm these ultra negative people and
It kind of takes their their
Fight from the minute also makes them look like
emotional extremists so with the group right when somebody calls that out in the group
Then they're coming across all extreme and you just absorb it and negated a little bit
It negates their view or it I shouldn't say negates negates me. It's actually totally loud
It's across out when you just absorb it and deflect it a little bit
The rest of the team goes on. Yeah, you know, oh echo. He's just super emotional. He's a negative
They see him for what he is which help is helpful
for you right and then once I'm done
Obsorbing their attacks it taking some of those shots no big deal that I'm gonna start to override them
What with some with some positivity which is gonna be directed at them
Right so they were all negative but I'm gonna say
Hey
Hey, what you did there really work well or you know, hey, you could jump on that
I didn't know I did cut I never could have figured that out like you did right so I'm gonna start
Start getting in their head a little bit and start
Feeling their head with some positive stuff. That's right. That's all I'm gonna do bad. You figured that out better than anybody
nicely done and I'm bringing them
From the dark side over to the light. That's what I'm doing. I'm bringing them over and
Actually, I just have the funniest up one of my favorite guys in the sealed teams
He was my he was my first deployment to Iraq. He was the senior elisted guy in our task in it's
And actually we're just bros but
When one of us would start getting a little off the reservation on something like getting all addicted to some idea or something
The other one we would would be looking like I'd be telling like we need to do this and this is bullshit
We need to do and he'd look at me like maybe I took come back come back come back to like
We're over here. It's okay. We're all gonna be okay
So when I would start getting negative huge hurt pulling me back to the light right and same thing with with me with him
he would get you would get all you know
Get all met a fact he's the guy
Remember when he talks about
simplify repeat. Yeah, no simplify
Amplify and repeat that's it. Yeah, that's him. He would also have to bring me back for the dark side and have to do it to him too if he started getting a little too negative
Good times but
The last thing I want to do with someone that's being super negative is I am actually want to I want to give them some ownership
I want to give them some ownership some ability to make changes some ability to
Have some kind of a positive impact on the mission so I'm gonna pick something that I think they can step up and handle right something that
Is within their grasp and realm and ability and I'm gonna give it to him and then I'm gonna give them
I'm gonna kind of overload them with help and with assistance and with guidance to make sure that they win
And that's gonna start spinning them in a more positive direction. Yeah, so that's my
Way to deal with the big negative people out there just absorb
Yes, I like that I hear maybe like I like how you figured that out and I said this before
But a good one is to be like to say hey, that's what I like about you you're real
Whatever xyz, you know you and that feel like
Because people said that to me that's what I like about you you're real whatever, you know and it makes you want to like continue to be that
You know and you're like hey, he thinks I'm you know a problem solvers
I'm gonna be aware and just to continue to solve problems, you know you put the self fulfilling prophecy in their own hands
Yeah, all the things that you want them to do
Exactly
Yeah, that's a good times
Jockel next question next question. Jockel I'm in I and T. J. Personality
My drive slash ideas often cause friction with superiors. How can I use my strengths without creating division?
Okay, I
So for this one I I kind of had to look up
This stuff to remember exactly what it was and the like the i and j t r i and t j stuff is
In introverted intuitive thinking judging this is part of this
Myers-Brigs type indicator that refers to one of 16
Psychological types right so it's sort of a graph
That you can figure out these what type of of 16 different psychological types
That there are and so so for this one in particular this i and j t which like I said is introverted
intuitive
Thinking and judging and I went to the interwebs for this sure and it said that as an i and
T j
Your primary mode of living is focused internally
Internally where you take things in primarily via your intuition
Your secondary mode is external where you deal with things rationally and logically
So
Speaking of
self fulfilling prophecies this is kind of one of them and
You know as far as I'm concerned your personality and anyone's personality is not set in stone by by any
Stretching of course can you have some
natural tendencies as a person?
Of course you you do have some natural tendencies and if your brain
Was on autopilot you would steer towards those personality traits even more but
luckily
Our brain is not on autopilot and you have your hands on the wheel
Had you can control your mind and you can in this case, you know step back and and and get a grip on things that you know according to question that cause friction
right
if
As if as an i and j t you are supposedly
To demanding and these are little quotes at that if you're too demanding or not open to other people or not open to other ideas
Here's what you do real simple
Get less demanding
Right if you have a hard time
Listening to other people
Listen to other people
If you and this is another quote I got from the i and j t personality matrix
If you are supposed to have a low tolerance of emotion of in others
Then
Get more tolerance for emotions in others this isn't hard
You identified what the issues are you've heard me say this all the time listen to other people treat them with respect these things are not doing that so do them
That's that's really simple
There's no reason to you for you to fulfill this prophecy of being a person that's not open others ideas a person that's not that has low tolerance for other people
There's there's no reason for you to be overly demanding you don't have to be this way
Just because that's your personality type allegedly that doesn't mean you have to be that way. Hey, what's this kind of like um
You know the the Horoscope signs
Right sure and I do people even talk about those anymore. I don't know my dad well what is it Horoscope or
Strawl it you struggle. Oh, there's another same thing. Yeah, it was a different yeah, well you read your Horoscope, but the
The based on the magic of astrology. Yeah, yeah people still do that so so when I
Well, when I it doesn't happen me to wow, but when I was younger
People would say you look what what sign are you and I'd say
You know, I'm a scorpio and they do oh
I do it until you were a scorpio. You guys yeah, I totally picked you as a scorpio
I saw that I go actually
I'm not a scorpio
And I'd say you know actually I'm a Libra and they'd go oh, oh, no, no, no
Yeah, for sure you're a Libra all the way
Definitely because you have this and you're that and I go actually I'm kidding
I'm I'm actually a Virgo and then they wouldn't trust me anymore and I was a bastard and
Whatever, but my point is according to some random zodiac calendar
It's
You can place those like
Overlaze on anybody and you can kind of make them fit and that's what I'm saying is like I'm not saying that the
That the
NTP or ESJ or LMNOP or whatever
I'm not saying that the Myers-Briggs thing is just wrong
I think it's I think it's good to have a framework. I think it's fine to have a framework and say oh, yeah
I recognize this trade myself or yeah, I recognize that trade myself or I recognize that trade and someone else and then you can deal with it
I think that's good
But what I don't what I don't accept is
saying this is what I am and therefore
I'm not gonna change no wrong answer if we all just accepted who we are
You know, you're you're not gonna make any progress, you know, so you find some weaknesses in your personality and you fix them
That's
That's what I'm saying adapt yourself evolve get better stop creating fiction friction stop
Creating division be humble listen take input all those things and I'll tell you one last thing is if you really are
the
I and TJ
The that means that you're smart it means you're thinking it means you're pragmatic it means you're an analytical person you're supposed to be
All those things so if you are
Then realize that in order to be successful remember the team you need to put all those little characteristics into check
Pragatically and make it happen
One is reading about that very recently about I and JT
It in the breaks
Inchills for the other thing introvert extrovert and
Yeah, so there's that framework and and but as it turns out it's like a bell curve
Where most people are somewhere in the middle and you kind of bounce in the middle there
So there's extreme introverts for sure extreme extroverts, but usually it's you you're in the middle, you know
Cool there's a framework cool
Another thing with that is is just like a rest of the self-fulfilling thing so
Effective and I always like say this just to my friends whatever the different like feeling a certain way
I don't think you should have too much guilt in feeling a certain way like you know sometimes will be like dang
I felt like I don't know I felt prejudice or something like that and it's because those feelings come from a bunch of things that that a lot of time
You can't control but behavior is a different so you can feel one thing and behave if your behavior is just based straight up on your feelings
And that's like that's kind of whack, you know you gotta be smarter. We're okay
You have these natural feelings cool so you're an intro I
Whatever and so yeah, you might tend to have certain types of feelings or lack of tolerant for this or you're not tolerant for you know this or that
So when you're like hey, I'm this therefore it gives me a past a
Behave this way it's like dang bro you can't do that man and if you're intuitive but I shouldn't you kind of know
I guess I would think I would hope so but yeah, so again there's a difference between like feelings and behavior and
Usually I would be in a hall you say like yeah if you want to tough it if you want to be tougher be tougher
Yeah a lot of times I'd be like well, there's more to it than that and there is really but
And in this case in a way bro you can really look at it literally like that if you have a lack of tolerance for emotional
But just tolerate it
But you yourself I think people do self diagnose and give themselves a pass and I know we did kind of how I think we do it naturally too because I know this
I'm put it really in big use because I don't call anyone out, but that I know this family where
The little girls growing up they're like
They kept telling her hey you're acting this way because you have a lot of not forget what I think as burgers something something
Yeah, some girls oh, that's just your thing and they didn't like cultivating
They they were just like real dismissive about it. That's it and then now every time she acted up
She wouldn't like try to curb her behavior she'll act up and be like that's just my whatever my
Aspergers or whatever that she like embraced it still behaved you know in whatever way she felt like behaving and then just kind of put it on the
Aspergers. Yeah
It's mine control. Yeah, man. It's mine control. You've got I mean obviously you get some people that have some significant you know
Mental problem. Okay understand, but like
This person that's writing a logical question
They got mine control. They just need to say you know what I'm gonna be more open to other people's emotions
I'm gonna listen other people's ideas. Yeah, go do it now. Yeah. Oh, I'm rejecting echoes
Echo's idea at point blank range. Okay. That's a signal. I need to not do that. Yeah, I'm open to your idea
Let me hear it. It's that easy. Yeah, that's just my INTJ acting up. I got it. You know, I gotta check that
Yeah, the feelings versus behavior thing
I think is well, it's one of those things where when you know the problem that's like because this person's obviously ahead of the game
You know, they know you know, they know this is what's causing okay? I can you know I can identify when I feel that stuff coming on
Very important like it's an ailment, you know, it's not an ailment. It's good still
All right
Next question
This is the last one. Go on up. Yeah, I think maybe make this the last one up. Okay
Jocko, we all know bad things happen to good people sometimes
How do you deal how do you deal when those things happen to people around you?
very true that
sometimes
Bad things horrible things happen to
good people and
I don't I don't know why
But
Life isn't fair
That's that's the reality and
disease
Like cancer and MS and horrible diseases and accidents and
these things
a good person
in the wrong place
in the wrong time can end up
just a victim of of of of fate and
end of reality
and it can be horrible and heart wrenching
but
when those
bad things happen
to people around you what are you
going to do
How are you going to lead?
Are you going to get angry?
Are you going to get frustrated or are you going to last shout at people who are you going to last shout at anyways?
Are you going to start going down the spiral of negativity?
Are you going to let this horrible situation dictate the way you feel and the way you handle it?
Are you going to fall over and fall down
fall apart or
Or are you going to lead?
Are you going to face this issue with courage and with resolution?
I say lead
lead, step up to the challenge
be the one that other people look to
absorb that impact, absorb that negativity, draw fire
draw fire that's that's when a member of a platoon for for tactical reasons
steps into the open to draw enemy fire
maybe to give another part of his team the chance to move or distract the enemy
but that's what I say draw fire bring that pain to me
I can handle it
when when maybe others cannot
when when bad things are happening
I am going to try and be the one good thing
the thing standing tall that can be relied upon
because I know that that attitude will spread
that will bolster those around me
and we will fight
and in fighting we will win
and if not the battle and if not the war we will win because
our spirit it will never surrender
in that
that is the ultimate victory to hold your head
high and even even in the face of
inescapable defeat
to stand and to fight
that is to win
and I think that's all I've got for tonight
echo let's close this thing out a little bit
before we do that though let's talk about how the people that are listening to this if you want to listen to more of it
what's the best way to
support the podcast what's the best way to
getting the game here with the boys
help us keep rolling this thing out what's the best way to go
do you want to clarify getting the game means a lot
yeah because it's you're getting in the game and flushing in the game really
to do that you may or may not need supplementation if you do you like that
it's like a little bit like a transition
anyway so supplementation right I need more
krill oil by the way you should have told me that before we met today
yeah as opposed to right now
nonetheless on it on it has best supplements everyone knows that
I think I think everyone knows that by now but if you want to
percent off and you're new to on it or even if you have on it stuff and you'll just
when you're getting more you want to percent off go on it dot com slash jockel
10 percent off if you really want to step up your supplementation game
I think I mentioned this like once before but nonetheless
it's called stay on it so you know how I don't have krill oil right now I didn't stay on it
so stay on it is boom you hate it's like the monthly
recurring yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and yeah and in this case it's like um
it's good because it is one of those things that you need to come back
yep every month you need you need krill yeah every month yeah and like where
your bars you need varying levels before your bars per month you know sometimes
more sometimes less it's true but yeah on the dot com slash jockel 10 percent off boom
check out all this stuff very good also Amazon
true cool tool does not work anymore they're true between the
destroy by the empire yeah which you know it had a good run and you know cool but
nonetheless we are still doing the Amazon thing and people do support through Amazon which is good
very good it's awesome yeah so what is it cost them to support the podcast through Amazon
it costs three seconds of their time that's appreciated and that's just a one time
investment potentially if you you know you save it to the but you click on the k go to
website talk about cast.com or jockel store.com click on the Amazon link before you do your shopping
it'll take you you know to the Amazon save that save the resulting links in like a bookmarks
is a favorite bookmark so you can support every time you shop then cost you nothing that
initial three seconds of your life you know a lot of people been doing that and that's that's
solid right there thank you but yeah do it that way you can support and also
subscribe and iTunes if you haven't already and subscribe on YouTube I know I've been saying this
rule you're you're actually trust level no man you're you're starting to cost yourself there
I know right I think it's my fault actually no man you've been you've been giving me trust and
I'm probably haven't been throwing it back at love I don't know nonetheless I know I've been saying it
where you're getting as you're gonna make more videos that's what you're gonna say now yeah
I'm gonna tell you just trust me on this
everybody that listen this podcast wants you to make more videos no feeling any pressure about that
maybe that's just not you maybe you just don't you know you don't want to make it happen that's okay
I would you want you to know that we all all of us we all want you to make more videos that's the
vote from us troopers over here so you got your thing you know hopefully you can find some time
make some badass videos all I'll try thanks for calling them badass the world they are that's
what the bro that's motivating thanks bro well hopefully you can motivate you enough to find some discipline to
make some more videos for us okay I'll do it um but yes you too subscribe to the podcast
right you got to subscribe to the podcast right I'd basically yeah that's the most basic level of
of of joining yeah the movement yeah is that Tuesday night maybe around 11 o'clock depending on where
you're depending on where you are maybe it's two o'clock in the morning when's it a little icon
comes up with a little one next to it that you got a new new podcast listen to which is
which is good to go yeah that one is um what do you call that it's like a cue or something
and what they expect is what's called the variable reward anyway that's a whole different thing
nonetheless you'll grow up variable reward go what is this is just like the endorphins thing where
you see it and you can all excited yeah kind of so variable reward it's like when you it's like
the really the iconic cases any like Facebook or whatever you see the one the alert I go
like it's something I don't know what it is it could be someone talking good about me it could be
someone invited me to play a game it's a variable reward like it could be of something with
high payoff could be low payoff but I know it's something you know I don't know what it is well
they decided they want to click on in this case I'm gonna go ahead and say I'm I know it's gonna be
a high value reward when I see that little one I go yes I get to listen to the podcast and
I know some people said we're weird I listen to the podcast I have to listen to the podcast so I
know what A what we talked about B what we could do better yeah see where we need to get better
yeah all those things so I got to listen to it yeah sometimes even when people you know like
um a lot of times K the podcast comes out the next day a lot of a lot of slun Twitter are
bringing up stuff you know that you said or what I said whatever and you're like oh wait yeah I
didn't know it came off like that whether it's true or not whatever it's kind of like so when you
listen to it you're like way more in tune now this might be a backhanded compliment or not I'm not sure
but when you say something cool on the podcast everybody loves it everyone goes nuts
yeah and I'm not trying to say that you don't say cool things often because I think you say a lot of
cool things but the ones that people capture and they go yeah heck let's say this and they do like
they just flood the interwebs with echo Charles's greatness yeah you know what that's like it's like
one a two year old says like a word or like a one and a half year old says a word
and they go oh my gosh they said I love you everyone says I love you it's just the fact it's not
much you said before your record you said something like pretty legit before your recorded today
what did you say I don't know yeah you do know what you said say it again you get all the people
excited anyway it might have been something about the jocco store it was a gem I don't remember
okay always record always record and all the tenacious defense out there you know exactly what I'm
talking about all right nonetheless jocquist or we could talk about that that's a good way
to get in the game for sure that's where all the shirts and stuff are that was a really built up
like bro I'm saying here and here's the thing about the shirts what's on the shirt there's
a nut there's a hidden or not so hidden meaning so you know a lot of times you know you know
the meaning you know if you listen to this and you're kind of in the game you know the meaning
you know but it's not just a shirt with the design there's meaning behind it so that's why so so
so if you listen you know right basically and if you don't listen then it makes no sense
it makes less sense put it that way but yeah exactly right there could be some there could be
some shirts that make no sense to anybody yeah and that's did you see so I put out the my old band
when I was a kid and I tweeted this picture yeah the t-shirt that we had made my buddy had the
silk screen still so I held it up the light I took a picture I posted it the name of the band
was bronzons children as in Charles Bronson who when I was a kid Charles Bronson I thought that he
was the man and I thought it was the man because he had awesome movies but that he care about that
he was a war hero he was a he was in the world war two you're purple heart he was a tail gunner
just to just a bad ask guy and so we me and my buddies we thought Charles Bronson was the man so
we had our band we called it bronzons children so we run that shirt
people that might be something people are going to like but who's gonna look at that and
no have any idea what they're gonna be like hey that kind of looks like Charles Bronson
doesn't even kind of look like Charles it straight up looks like Charles Bronson yeah they
won't know no they won't know the idea state of Charles Bronson I don't know it's likeness
yeah we'd be definitely using this likeness yeah yeah but actually but that's life the
Jill Ireland she's she died as well I don't know who's I don't know why don't know who's left
the Bronson family I don't know maybe we could that be a good way to get in contact with them
start producing their shirts and get sued by them yeah that so Bronson's children would get sued
you know because your Bronson's still true
not in the variable reward there um that yep okay I think the shirts are cool currently
the Bronson children that's a that's a that's a deep one to that's good but they
have layers like I said and I'm saying that's a good way to support you know like sure some
get the shirts I would say go go that go jockelstore.com go there look at the shirts you know
like I'm not getting nothing but just look could you get a rash card there if you're so inclined
to get a rash card you can get a rash card for sure the rash cards are good I think that's almost
like on a factual level where they're good well there's a lot of people that are are have
experience the 19% increase in their jutsu skills or strike levels and running so
what sucks is so now all my training partners or at least a lot of them are wearing trooper
rash cards when they fight me so I'm having to fight these guys that are coming at me they all look
the same they're all monster guys with trooper t-shirt or trooper rash cards on it's not fun I'm getting
beat up by my own people yeah 19% more than you were yeah 19% more
stuff man it's rough being jockel sometimes the but yeah the rash cards go at a good kind of like
kind of email conversation and it's telling me how wakes up in the morning does a run this is in
totally forgetting where it was but just kind of the serenity contrasted with the true
barash card it was it was nice nonetheless you know the the rash cards are good if you're into
it do you do surfing running across it and I know you thought of this I know we thought of this
but you know it's October right now yeah 2016 and we need we need hoodies what's the status
can you please update me two weeks so by by Halloween by the end of the month yeah people
looking to need trooper hoodies for Halloween just that why myself included yeah yeah so yeah
who's coming out we went I did like it wasn't a poll what do you do you know you do a poll on
Twitter but all it I said pull over or zip up pull over one yeah for sure I'm strangely I like
me well yeah that's jacked up I mean actually I asked you long time ago when it was just like a
theory like an idea and you were like pull over but I didn't agree but I didn't agree I was like
pull over a cool I don't know this but yeah I I think they're both cool for sure but pull over one
yeah kind of my alliance like two yeah it's crazy no doubt nonetheless oh yeah pull over there you go
on the way two weeks there should be solid and then you know other stuff some girls tanks
t-shirts coming out girls t-shirts you're getting abused by the girls yeah we'll just say
per suede it I see them roughing up per suede they chose not to flank but per suede and then
the last okay you know they were they're all about the direct action for sure so some women
stuff on there and more and then some patches again with the the size of the Velcro patches
the two by three is on the way right now they're four by four across three inches down that's big
for the standard Velcro interchangeable right yeah so just know that all my three's are on the way
yeah good I mean you know four with three is fine I guess but not for if you're interchangeable and you
got two by three no for all the military guys and law enforcement they need three by two and this is
I should have told you that made it a little more clear yeah but anyways none live and we learn yeah
so the main thing go there jocquistord.com is just the story with everything again if you don't like
it don't get it but look you might like that one in bumper stickers anyway and also on amazon
you can go and get yourself some jocquistord. Yeah and it's sold a lot better.
It's sold it's selling amazing and we got a massive order on the way and we've also got some
re-stock coming so it came originally and these really nice tins that cost a lot of money to make and
so that's cool you want to have one of those tins but if you're doing your reload you're going to
be able to buy in the next few weeks you can be able to buy a reload of box without 100 in it
a hundred so you don't need like another tinnitus and refill it so that's common and you know what if
you're uncertain whether or not you need the white tea it's really easy go to amazon
you go to amazon you read the reviews you'll be convinced because they are perfectly the jocquist
tea is performing miracles but definitely yes across the board so those are awesome go read those
are funny as hell so and let's see also if you haven't gotten extreme ownership book by myself
and my brother lay fab and just go ahead and grab that book and own that book take extreme ownership
of the book extreme ownership and you'll be good to go and and also if you have it but there's other
people that need it sometimes you need to take ownership of that situation as well and you
need to buy them a copy and also extreme ownership the master in sandiego california october 20th
in 21st it's a leadership conference or we're talking about combat leadership and the application
of those principles from combat how you use them on the battlefield how you use them in business
and how you use them in life so register come on out we'll see then it's getting close obviously
life's gonna be there Andrew Paul who's on the podcast is gonna be there echo Charles will be in
the house so come on out and let's let's crush that as always if you do want to keep it real
real real with echo and with myself we kind of roll deep on the interwebs and we're there on
Twitter for me primarily Twitter also Instagram also that face bookies there and we're both on
echo is at echo Charles and I am at jacco willink and last but not least thank you
out there you listening engaging troops overseas and that are deploying overseas to hunt down evil
thank you police and law enforcement with an incredibly hard job risking your lives to keep us safe
thank you firefighters of course that literally run toward fire
thank you and to the working men and women building creating fixing buying selling
designing making this world thanks to each of you for what you are doing for doing your bit
the best you can and finally thank you all for getting after it
and so until next time this is echo and jacco out